Update packaging guide (#44)
pyansys/dev-guide: doc/source/library_description/packaging.rst

Additional Directories
----------------------

The following directories may be specified at the same level as the ``src/`` one:

* ``tests/``: Contains all unit tests for the package. It is
  likely that these tests take advantage of the `pytest`_ framework.

* ``doc/``: Contain all documentation files and examples on
  how to use the package.

Project File and Build System
------------------------------

The ``pyproject.toml`` file is the standardized build configuration file for Python
projects. It must contain at least a ``[build-system]`` section, which determines
how the project is built. Some commonly used packaging tools are `setuptools`_,
`poetry`_, and `flit`_. All three of these packaging tools are currently supported by
the `pyansys template`_.

Flit
^^^^

Flit is a modern and lightweight build system that requires developers
to manage virtual environments on their own. Developers must:

* Create a virtual environment and activate it.
* Install the package in editable mode.

Flit is the default tool for creating a new project when using the
`pyansys template`_.

The ``[project]`` section specifies the project's metadata and required

> dependencies. For more information, see the `flit pyproject.toml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dependencies. For more information, see `flit pyproject.toml
```

guidelines`_.

Poetry
^^^^^^

> Poetry is known because of its strong dependency pinning thanks to the
> ``poetry.lock`` file. When installing a package, poetry creates a virtual
> environment, thus ensuring an isolated package development environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Because of its ``poetry.lock`` file, Poetry provides strong dependency pinning. When
 installing a package, poetry creates a virtual environment, thus ensuring an isolated
 package development environment.
```

> It is possible to avoid previous behavior by executing the following command:

Reviewer: Again, not sure what previous behavior this is avoiding....

.. code:: bash

   poetry config virtualenvs.create false --local

> Therefore, `poetry`_ may be chosen due to the following reasons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `poetry`_ is popular because it:
```

> * It supports pinning dependency versions via a ``poetry.lock`` file, which we
>   use for testing / CI.
> * Downstream packages can still consume a loose dependency specification.
> * It integrates with `dependabot`_ to update the pinned version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Supports pinning dependency versions via a ``poetry.lock`` file that can be 
  used for testing and CI
* Allows downstream packages to still consume a loose dependency specification
* Integrates with `dependabot`_ to update the pinned version
```

> The ``[tool.poetry]`` section contains metadata, and defines the project's
> dependencies. Refer to the `poetry pyproject.toml documentation`_ for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``[tool.poetry]`` section contains metadata and defines the project's
dependencies. For more information, see `poetry pyproject.toml documentation`_.
```

Setuptools
^^^^^^^^^^

> Setuptools is a very well known build system in the Python ecosystem. It is used
> in projects requiring a ``setup.py``. Setuptools can be used with projects using
> the ``pyproject.toml`` too, although not all metadata is fully supported yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setuptools is a very well known build system in the Python ecosystem. It is used
in projects requiring a ``setup.py`` file and in projects using a
``pyproject.toml`` file, although not all metadata in this second file
is fully supported yet.
```

> The main advantage of this build system is the ability of creating custom build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main advantage of this build system is the ability to create custom build
```

steps in the form of Python code.

Specifying Package Version
--------------------------

It is very common for packages to specify their current version in the
``__version__`` variable. This variable is usually declared in the
``__init__.py`` file included in the ``library`` directory.

However, it is also required to specify the version in the ``pyproject.toml`` or

> ``setup.py``. This leads to a duplicate declaration of the project's version,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``setup.py`` file. This leads to a duplicate declaration of the project's version,
```

which could lead to a potential mismatch between both.

> Therefore, a good practice is to take advantage of the `importlib.metadata package`_,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, a good practice is to take advantage of the `importlib.metadata package`_
```

> for parsing the version from package metadata. This guarantees no mismatch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for parsing the version from package metadata. This guarantees that there is no mismatch
```

between both version declarations.

.. code:: python

  try:
      import importlib.metadata as importlib_metadata
  except ModuleNotFoundError:
      import importlib_metadata

  __version__ = importlib_metadata.version(__name__.replace(".", "-"))

Extra Tools Configuration
-------------------------

> There are plenty of tools in the Python ecosystem which enable developers to
> write clean code according to different coding style guidelines. Some of these
> tools are `black`_, `isort`_, `flake8`_, `mypy`_...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are plenty of tools in the Python ecosystem that enable developers to
write clean code according to different coding style guidelines. Some of these
tools are `black`_, `isort`_, `flake8`_, and `mypy`_.
```

Some of these tools can be configured. This configuration might be specified in

> custom files required by the tool or in the ``pyproject.toml`` reducing thus the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
custom files required by the tool or in the ``pyproject.toml`` file, thus reducing the
```

> amount of files in the project directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
number of files in the project directory.
```

.. note::

>   When using `setuptools`_ as a build backend, providing the metadata in
>   ``pyproject.toml`` is not yet fully supported.  Instead, it also requires a
>   ``setup.cfg`` and / or ``setup.py`` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When using `setuptools`_ as a build backend, providing the metadata in
  the ``pyproject.toml`` file is not yet fully supported.  Instead, it also 
  requires a ``setup.cfg`` file, ``setup.py`` file, or both files.
```

In the `pyansys template`, all these configurations are included by default in

> the `.pre-commit-config.yaml`, as `pre-commit` is not able to parse the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the ``.pre-commit-config.yaml`` file because ``pre-commit`` is not able to parse the
```

> ``pyproject.toml`` file neither the ``setup.py`` one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``pyproject.toml`` file nor the ``setup.py`` file.
```

Generate the Package and Upload It on PyPI
------------------------------------------

> The first time that you want to upload a package on PyPI under the `ansys <https://pypi.org/user/ansys/>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first time that you want to upload a package on PyPI under `ansys <https://pypi.org/user/ansys/>`_
```

Packaging
#########

A Python package organizes and structures a Python library, which contains
several modules and assets such as examples or binary extensions. A Python
package offers an easy, reliable, and comprehensive way to distribute and
install a Python library on a variety of platforms and environments.

.. note::

   If you want to create a new PyAnsys project according to the guidelines
   presented in the following lines, consider using the `pyansys template`_.

> Python scripts, modules, sub-packages and packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Python Scripts, Modules, Sub-packages, and Packages
```

Reviewer: We are using initial capital letters in title headings.

Reviewer 2: Agh, I noticed it but missed with this one... Thanks for pointing it out, @PipKat.

--------------------------------------------------

It is important to understand the difference between Python scripts, modules,

> sub-packages and packages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sub-packages, and packages:
```

Reviewer 2: Will pay more attention to this from now on.

> * ``Script``: any Python file holding logic source code.
> * ``Module``: any Python script hosted next to an ``__init__.py`` file.
> * ``Sub-package``: any directory holding various Python modules.
> * ``Package``: any directory which contains Python modules and sub-packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``Script``: Any Python file with logic source code.
* ``Module``: Any Python script hosted next to an ``__init__.py`` file.
* ``Sub-package``: Any directory containing various Python modules.
* ``Package``: Any directory containing Python modules and sub-packages.
```

The following structure is shown to better explain previous concepts:

.. code:: bash

    .
    ├── src
    │   └── package
    │       ├── subpackage_a
    │       │   ├── __init__.py
    │       │   └── module_c.py
    │       ├── __init__.py
    │       ├── module_a.py
    │       └── module_b.py
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.rst
    └── pyproject.toml

Namespace Packaging
-------------------

> A PyAnsys library uses `namespace packaging`_.  Namespace packages allow a user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A PyAnsys library uses `namespace packaging`_.  Namespace packages allow you
```

to easily split sub-packages from a package into single, independent
distributions.

There are different approaches available for creating a namespace package. For
the ``ansys`` namespace, we use the `PEP 420`_ `native namespace packages`_
approach.

Following previous namespace, the source directory of any `PyAnsys library`
should look like this:

.. code:: bash

    .
    └── src
        └── ansys
            └── product
                └── library
                    └── __init__.py

Required Files
--------------

* ``README.rst`` file: Describes the purpose of the package.
  *The format of this file must be reStructuredText.*

* ``LICENSE`` file: Specifies copyrights and required authorization.

* ``pyproject.toml`` file: Provides package information.

>   This file provides the package metadata, and defines how it is built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This file provides the package metadata and defines how it is built.
```

  There are different build backends available, such as `setuptools`_,

>   `poetry`_ and `flit`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `poetry`_, and `flit`_.
```

> * ``pyproject.toml`` file: Provides package information.
>   This file provides the package metadata, and defines how it is built.
>   There are different build backends available, such as `setuptools`_,
>   `poetry`_ and `flit`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``pyproject.toml`` file: Provides package metadata and defines how
  the package is built. There are different build backends available, such as `setuptools`_,
  `poetry`_, and `flit`_.
```

Reviewer: The earlier descriptions started with a verb. I've made this and the subsequent ones consistent.

> * ``src/ansys/product/library/__init__.py`` file: This file usually holds the
>   version of the package in a variable named ``__version__``. The value of this
>   variable can be parsed from the `pyproject.toml` file, so it is only specified
>   in one location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``src/ansys/product/library/__init__.py`` file: Usually holds the
  version of the package in a variable named ``__version__``. The value of this
  variable can be parsed from the ``pyproject.toml`` file so that it is only specified
  in one location.
```

Additional Directories
----------------------

> The following directories may be specified at the same level of ``src/`` one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following directories may be specified at the same level as the ``src/`` one:
```

* ``tests/``: This directory holds all unitary tests of the package. It is
  likely that those take advantage of the `pytest`_ framework.

* ``doc/``: A directory devoted to hold all documentation files and examples on
  how to use the package.

Project File and Build System
------------------------------

> The ``pyproject.toml`` file is the standardized build configuration file for Python
> projects. It needs to at least contain a ``[build-system]`` section, which determines
> how the project is built. Some commonly used packaging tools are `setuptools`_,
> `poetry`_, or `flit`_. All these three build systems are currently supported by
> the `pyansys template`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``pyproject.toml`` file is the standardized build configuration file for Python
projects. It must contain at least a ``[build-system]`` section, which determines
how the project is built. Some commonly used packaging tools are `setuptools`_,
`poetry`_, and `flit`_. All three of these packaging tools are currently supported by
the `pyansys template`_.
```

Flit
^^^^

> It is a modern and lightweight build system. Using this tool requires
> developers to manage virtual environments by their own, that is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flit is a modern and lightweight build system that requires developers
to manage virtual environments on their own. Developers must:
```

> * Creating a virtual environment and activating it.
> * Installing the package in editable mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a virtual environment and activate it.
* Install the package in editable mode.
```

> This tool is the default one for creating a new project when using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flit is the default tool for creating a new project when using the
```

`pyansys template`_.

> The ``[project]`` section is used for specifying project's metadata and required
> dependencies. More information can be found in the `flit pyproject.toml
> guidelines`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``[project]`` section specifies the project's metadata and required
dependencies. For more information, see the `flit pyproject.toml
guidelines`_.
```

  pip install twine
  twine check dist/*

> Upload the package to PyPI using ``twine`` and the upload token generated for the ``ansys`` PyPI account.

Reviewer 3: @greschd  We can add that an independent token dedicated to the package can then be created as soon as the package is available on Pypi. This way the token stored in the GitHub secrets and used in the release workflow is only related to that specific package.
```suggestion
Upload the package to PyPI using ``twine`` and the upload token generated for the ``ansys`` PyPI account.
As soon as the package the package has been released for the first time, it is possible to create an independent token dedicated to this package.
This way the token stored in the GitHub secrets and used in the release's workflow is only related to that specific package. This minimize the exposure of any potential token security flaws.
```

Reviewer 4: Agreed. Nice work! Specify the default name for the org secret and this will be good to add.
